Javier Portillo


Profile

Experienced software developer specializing in JavaScript and TypeScript, successfully deployed production ready products that positively impacted the efficiency of the client's operations.
Dedicated to delivering high-quality solutions.
My robust foundation from being a self-taught programmer from a very young age, and then also formally educated, insatiable curiosity in the continuous urge to deepen my knowledge, and meticulous approach enable me to thrive in dynamic environments.
Seeking opportunities to leverage my skills and drive success in software development initiatives.

Job Experience

- Dada Dada  Cia. S.A. de C.V.

Software Engineer; Sep '17 - Feb '23


  Developed call-center oriented services from the ground up with modern technologies and best practices.
  Implemented integrations with 3rd party software but also with our client's custom systems.
  Collaborated in the maintenance of legacy systems.
  Coordinated the efforts of adoption of programming best practices in my team, like clean code, refactoring and unit testing. With approval and collaboration with management, I helped stablish a series of free-form workshops where the team could share specialized knowledge, this lifted the teams capacities and made us a more cohesive team.
  Developed the "Omnichannel Project", a multichannel social-media bridge meant to distribute direct messages sent via instant messaging to be attended by groups of agents.
  Developed the "Automatic Dialler", a platform for setup, management and distribution of massive call campaigns.
  Created multiple custom Chat Bots using Rasa, this was successfully integrated with the Omnichannel Project to make a hybrid system of automated answering of messages and a seamless take-over from agents.
  Managed cloud and on-premise deployments of our systems.
  Managed database systems, including creating and maintaining schemas.
  Deployed services with different levels of orchestration depending on our client's needs.

Jobchain GmbH

- Backend Developer; Feb '23 - Sep '23


  Developed back-end services focused on end-user messaging and contact management.

- Universidad Francisco Gavidia

Backend Developer; Sep '23 - Current


  Upgraded legacy C modules into NodeJS services for the back-end financial system.

Technical Skills

- Programming Languages

JavaScript, TypeScript, PHP, Lua, Python

- Markup

HTML, CSS, Markdown, LaTex.

- Frameworks  Libraries

React, NestJS, NextJS, VueJS, Nuxt, ExpressJS, Socket.io, Tailwind, Webpack, Vite, ReST, Jest, Playwright, Cucumber.

- Other Technologies

Docker, Kubernetes, MySQL, MongoDB, RabbitMQ, Ejabberd (XMPP), Facebook Graph API, Electron, Asterisk, Rasa.

- Workflow

NeoVim (main), VSCode, Tmux, common Linux utils, git, SSH, VPN, can adapt depending on the need.

Spoken Languages

English, Spanish (native)

Education  Certification


	Computer Science Degree Universidad Luterana Salvadoreña. November, 2022.

	Certified Kubernetes Administrator The Cloud Native Computing Foundation. April, 2022.

  Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) with Practice Test Udemy. April, 2022.

  Go: The Complete Developer's Guide (Golang) Udemy, March, 2022.

  Kubernetes, from beginner to expert Udemy, March, 2022.

